Hey,
guys,
Welcome back in this video,
we're going to discuss the workbook dot save as method.
So the workbook does save as method allows us to save a newly created workbook to a certain
location and what we're going to do here,
we're gonna add a new workbook and try to save it.
So first of all,
we're gonna use this statement here workbooks,
that Otto adding new workbook or to creating you workbook.
And this is similar to pressing control and end on your keyboard on then active workbook to
save eyes to save the workbook.
So let's go through these lines of code step by step by pressing F eight on our keyboard.
So now we've added a new workbook.
And the reason I've used active workbook here is because when you create a new workbook,
it becomes the active workbook.
So you can see when we executed the first statement,
workbooks that add a new workbook was added here with the name of book one.
So if we execute this statement here right away and we haven't provided the location or
anything,
you can see that the statement went through fine and actually this workbook book one has
been saved.
It's been saved,
actually,
in the default location for saving workbooks,
which is actually my documents folder as well.
So if you check that,
you can see her.
That book one has been saved in the Documents folder.
Of course,
this is not the recommended way of doing it,
because it is better to provide a location and a fall for Mitt.
So actually,
I'd recommend would use the save as method to always specify a file name and a fall for
Mitt.
And I'll tell you why in just a second.
So actually,
in the fall name parameter here,
you need to provide the full path for the directory or for the folder that you need to save
the file in.
And you need to also include the file name and its extension as well.
So say I'm gonna save it,
actually,
to the test folder on my desktop.
I'm going to call it test,
and its extension is gonna be actually dot XLs m.
Okay,
so I have closed book one that we had safe to the Documents folder,
and I'm gonna execute the code again and watch what happens now when I actually provide the
file name and do not provide the file format parameter.
It's actually now a new book has been open here book to.
So if I try to say that it actually does not save and it says the extension cannot be used
with the selected file type,
change the file extension the foul named textbooks or select a different file types by
changing the save as type.
So because I have no provided the fall format parameter,
I got an error and actually sometimes and don't get an error.
If actually the extension I'm saving with is the same as the default extension for Excel
that I've set in the Excel settings,
which you can set actually by going to file and then options and then save okay.
And this is actually the default extension.
And although the default extension is the same,
it has not saved,
but sometimes actually saves.
But this is why you need to actually develop a habit of always using the file format
parameter as this will save you any problems.
So you need to make sure to use the file format parameter all the time and to determine the
valid values for the file format parameter.
You can actually go to the workbook that save as page on MSD on on the Microsoft Directory
Network by highlighting this active workbook that say Vows and President F one on your
keyboard.
Or you can just Google work booked up,
save as method mst n,
and you should be able to reach that page.
So let's go to the page on the Microsoft Directory Network.
So I'm going to highlight that I'm press F one on my keyboard case.
So we're now on the workbook to save as method page on the Microsoft Directory Network.
And actually,
you can see here here is a fall format parameter.
And here,
if you click on this link here Excel file format,
you're gonna be brought to the page that contains all the fall form it's that you can put
into that parameter.
So here are all the file formats that you can put.
Okay,
these air,
the excel far formance.
You can either input the name or you can input the value.
Okay,
so you can either inputs,
for example,
excel Adan or input 18.
Okay,
so one of the famous ones that you would use a lot is the macro enabled workbook,
the the Excel macro enabled workbook.
It's called Excel Open XML workbook macro enabled.
This is the one.
Or you could also input 52.
That would work as well.
So I'm just gonna copy that here.
I'm gonna have back to my visual Basic editor.
Okay,
so I'm back on the visual basic editor and have pasted the value for the fall format
parameter here and now,
if you tried to run the code on step through it,
step by step.
So workbooks that ad and then active workbook to save as with that destination and with
that fall format.
And you can see here that the code has run fine and we've been able to save the fall.
So let's check our best folder on my desktop.
Okay,
So here is that just folder on my desktop and you can see here we've been able to save the
fall,
and it's type is a Microsoft Excel macro enabled worksheet.
Okay,
guys.
So I want to explain more parameters on the save as method.
So,
actually,
you can see here that this code is taking so long,
it's so horizontally.
It's taking a lot of real estate is.
Actually I can go to a new line and still type parameters into the save as method by
pressing space and then an underscore.
And then I compress enter to go to a new line.
And now,
Aiken,
continue typing into the save as method in the new line.
So it's a space and then an underscore,
and then you press enter.
And now we are in a new line.
But we're still typing values into the parameters for the workbook that save as method as
you can see her.
Okay,
guys.
So now we're gonna explain another parameter,
which is the password permit,
Er,
And as its name implies,
this parameter allows you to create a password for you workbook.
So if use the pastor parameter here,
password,
colon equals and then you need to write you password as strings units right at between.
Double quotes says say,
I'm gonna make it V b a course.
That's gonna be my password.
And this password,
this case sensitive.
And that means that you need to stick to the same casing for the letters that you've tight
the first time.
So,
for example,
V.
B a and the letter C need to be written in capital letters.
And the rest of the letters need to be written as small letters.
Okay,
so I say I'm going to save my file with a password of V B A course.
And I'm gonna make the file name to be password in the same location,
which is my best holder.
So if I run this macro,
the file will be saved in that folder with the password,
which is V B A course.
So let's check that out.
OK,
so here is my password file here.
So if I open it,
you can see her that is studying this special protected.
And I need to type in a password.
So if type of password and I'm able to access the file,
this is what the password parameter does.
So I'm gonna close the foul here.
Gonna go back to my visual basic editor.
Now we're gonna explain another parameter,
which is the right rez password,
which basically restricts writing to your file.
So that means that no one can make changes in your file unless he types of password.
So the first password parameter that we've just explained here.
This denies any access to your fall,
except if you type the password.
But this one the right rez.
Passwords,
writing restriction password.
This actually allows people to access the file,
even if they don't type the password.
So they there is a read only option.
But if they don't type the password,
they won't be able to change anything in the file.
They can read its contents,
but they cannot change anything.
Okay,
so they say I'm gonna make the password,
writes rez,
for example.
Like,
that is gonna be my password.
And the final name are going to make it right.
Rez is well,
and I'm actually going to remove this spots for parameter here to say I'm just gonna create
ah,
writing restriction password only.
And if I run this macro,
this is actually going to save my file with the name right Trez and with the writing
restriction password as well.
So let's check that file.
Okay,
guys.
So here is my file here.
I'm going to open it,
and it's gonna tell me that I can Onley open it as a read only if I don't type the pastor.
But if I need to have write access.
So if I need to have editing access to be able to enter the final,
I need to type this past richer.
If I type it,
I'm able to edit the file and I'm able to save it as well.
See what have edited.
But let's just close it and reopen it again.
Alright,
guys.
So have reopened again.
And if I ask for a read only access on,
I try to edit in the file and try to save it.
It tells me that I cannot save it,
because if I was to read on Lee and it actually prompts me to save another copy off it,
I cannot save my changes on the same copy so I can go to the browser and start saving as
usual.
Okay,
guys.
So we're not gonna go into the rest off the parameters because these air actually more than
enough for a beginner in V.
B.
A.
I'm actually going to include also a link for a block posts that actually explains the rest
of the parameters,
though they are not as important and you probably won't use them,
especially if you're a beginner and xlv b a and you're still trying to learn XlV b A.
So,
actually,
these parameters that we've explained are more than enough for a beginner,
which is actually what this courses started it for.
This course is started it for beginners.
So that's it,
guys,
for the workbook to save as method.
Thank you very much for watching this video and I'll see on the next one.